docs/user-guide: add configuration examples (#1588)
nix-community/nixvim: docs/user-guide/config-examples.md

# User configurations

> Want some help with starting your configuration ?
> Have a look at this catalog of configuration examples.

Reviewer: Subjective (other than space before `?`), feel free to ignore or iterate:

```suggestion
Want some inspiration for your configuration?
Or maybe you're curious how others have done things?
Take a look at these configuration examples below.
```

Author: I agree, this is better !

<!-- TODO: add info about `kickstart.nixvim` -->

**Note:**\

> Most of those configurations are using a [standalone flake](../modules/standalone.html).\

Reviewer: Might be misleading to conflate standalone builds with seperate flakes? E.g. I use a standalone build, but it's just one flake output on my main system configs flake. While maybe not in these examples, someone _could_ do a standalone build without using flakes at all... Or maybe I'm just being pedantic?

```suggestion
Most of those configurations are using a [standalone build](../modules/standalone.html).\
```

Reviewer: I'd probably also replace the period with a comma and the next line's "of course" with a "however" to join the two sentences into a single thought.

I'm getting very picky and subjective here though.

Author: > I'd probably also replace the period with a comma and the next line's "of course" with a "however" to join the two sentences into a single thought.

Done

> I'm getting very picky and subjective here though.

No, this is useful I think. As a native English speaker, you definitely have your say in this !

Author: > Might be misleading to conflate standalone builds with seperate flakes? E.g. I use a standalone build, but it's just one flake output on my main system configs flake. While maybe not in these examples, someone _could_ do a standalone build without using flakes at all... Or maybe I'm just being pedantic?

While I completely get your point, I would stay with "standalone flake" to ensure consistency with the rest of our documentation (website, README, issues, ...). I agree that the term is not technically accurate.
Any opinion @traxys ?

Reviewer 2: I think I agree with @MattSturgeon, we should try to dissociate flake & build

Author: Sure: `flake` -> `build` done

Author: Is that fine for you like this @MattSturgeon ?

Reviewer: > Is that fine for you like this?

Yep, that wording lgtm

| [gwg313/nvim-nix](https://github.com/gwg313/nvim-nix)                                                     |                                                       |
| [hbjydev/hvim](https://github.com/hbjydev/hvim)                                                           |                                                       |
| [nicolas-goudry/nixvim-config](https://github.com/nicolas-goudry/nixvim-config)                           | Heavily inspired by AstroNvim                         |
| [pete3n/nixvim-flake](https://github.com/pete3n/nixvim-flake)                                             |                                                       |
| [redyf/Neve](https://github.com/redyf/Neve)                                                               | meticulously crafted custom configuration for Nixvim  |
| [siph/nixvim-flake](https://github.com/siph/nixvim-flake)                                                 |                                                       |
| [Tanish2002/neovim-config](https://github.com/Tanish2002/neovim-config)                                   |                                                       |

> | [traxys/Nixfiles](https://github.com/traxys/Nixfiles/tree/master/neovim)                                  |                                                       |

Reviewer: Have you considered whether tables are suitable when reading the docs on mobile (or a small desktop window)?

Reviewer: If we go with a table (they do look nice), it may be wise to _either_ increase the column width a bit, _or_ don't align the column dividers at all (`|`). That way adding a new row with a wider column in the future shouldn't affect _all the other rows_ as well.

I'd also suggest using footnote-style markdown link syntax here, to make the source code a little more readable and less wide.

E.g. with un-aligned columns and footnote links:

```markdown
| Config | Comment |
|-|-|
| [siph/nixvim-flake] | |
| [Tanish2002/neovim-config] | |
| [traxys/Nixfiles] | |

[siph/nixvim-flake]: https://github.com/siph/nixvim-flake
[Tanish2002/neovim-config]: https://github.com/Tanish2002/neovim-config
[traxys/Nixfiles]: https://github.com/traxys/Nixfiles/tree/master/neovim
```

Author: I didn't know about this syntax. Done !

## Share your config !

To add a configuration to this list, either:
- Edit [this file](https://github.com/nix-community/nixvim/blob/main/docs/user-guide/config-examples.md) and make a PR on the [nixvim repo](https://github.com/nix-community/nixvim).

> - Send a message to the [matrix _Documentation_ room](https://matrix.to/#/#nixvim-documentation:matrix.org)

Reviewer: In addition to PR and Matrix, should we suggest GH Issues and GH Discussion threads?

Author: Hmm, for me those are the two best ways of "adding an entry to this list".

Reviewer: I don't have a strong opinion here. Just throwing out the idea. @traxys what's your thoughts?

Reviewer 2: I think I prefer what @GaetanLepage suggested

# User configurations

Want some help with starting your configuration?
Or maybe you're curious how others have done things?
Take a look at these configuration examples below.

<!-- TODO: add info about `kickstart.nixvim` -->

> **Note:**\

Author: Indeed, But I was finding it clearer to have this header against the text block than breaking a line.
But I can add a blankine if you prefer.

> **Note:**\

Reviewer: > But I was finding it clearer to have this header against the text block than breaking a line.

No, I was trying to say that most markdown flavors would render this the same with or without escaping that LF.

Is that not the case with mdbook?

> **Note:**\

Reviewer: Actually, reading the spec having the `\` does the opposite from what I thought it did (I thought it was a redundant escape sequence):

> For a more visible alternative, a backslash before the [line ending](https://github.github.com/gfm/#line-ending) may be used instead of two spaces:\
> [Example 659](https://github.github.com/gfm/#example-659)
>
> ```markdown
> foo\
> baz
> ```
>
> ```html
> <p>foo<br />
> baz</p>
> ```

> But I was finding it clearer to have this header against the text block than breaking a line.

I think I misinterpreted this. Were you saying you preferred rendering a linebreak after the **Note:** header, but wanted to avoid a full _paragraph_ break?

Your current code should render something like this:

```html
<p>
<b>Note:<b>
<br>
Most of those configurations are using a <a href="../modules/standalone.html">standalone build</a>, however,
all of the nixvim options are accessible no matter how you are using it (flake, NixOS/HM module, nix-darwin...).
</p>
```

or

**Note:**\
Most of those configurations are using a [standalone build](../modules/standalone.html), however, all of the nixvim options are accessible no matter how you are using it (flake, NixOS/HM module, nix-darwin...).

> **Note:**\

Reviewer: (This is resolved, assuming this is rendering as you intended)

| Config | Comment |
|-|-|
| [ahwxorg/nixvim-config] | |
| [alisonjenkins/neovim-nix-flake] | |
| [GaetanLepage/nix-config] | Home-manager |
| [gwg313/nvim-nix] | |
| [hbjydev/hvim] | |
| [nicolas-goudry/nixvim-config] | Heavily inspired by AstroNvim |
| [pete3n/nixvim-flake] | |
| [redyf/Neve] | meticulously crafted custom configuration for Nixvim |
| [siph/nixvim-flake] | |
| [Tanish2002/neovim-config] | |
| [traxys/Nixfiles] | |

[ahwxorg/nixvim-config]: https://github.com/ahwxorg/nixvim-config
[alisonjenkins/neovim-nix-flake]: https://github.com/alisonjenkins/neovim-nix-flake
[GaetanLepage/nix-config]: https://github.com/GaetanLepage/nix-config/tree/master/home/modules/tui/neovim
[gwg313/nvim-nix]: https://github.com/gwg313/nvim-nix
[hbjydev/hvim]: https://github.com/hbjydev/hvim
[nicolas-goudry/nixvim-config]: https://github.com/nicolas-goudry/nixvim-config
[pete3n/nixvim-flake]: https://github.com/pete3n/nixvim-flake
[redyf/Neve]: https://github.com/redyf/Neve
[siph/nixvim-flake]: https://github.com/siph/nixvim-flake
[Tanish2002/neovim-config]: https://github.com/Tanish2002/neovim-config

> [traxys/Nixfiles]: https://github.com/traxys/Nixfiles/tree/master/neovim

Reviewer: Traditionally, the "footnote" part of the link would go at the end of the document. But I don't think that's actually a requirement and I can see why you might prefer to keep it "local".

Personally, I'd have it at the EOF though.

Author: It seems to work fine like that.
Keeping it local makes more sense to me (as long as it works ofc).

Reviewer: No strong opinion here. @traxys?

Reviewer 2: No strong opinions from me either
